The Tale of Tux
Functional Specification
Tari Dunlap, Justin Pascual, Steven Wong
Last Updated: December 5, 2015
 
Overview
The Tale of Tux is a single-player fantasy role-playing video game, played in a browser on both desktop and mobile devices.

Scenarios
Scenario 1: Indie Mindie.
Mindie has played a lot of games in her day and become tired of the AA titles with flashy graphics. Wanting something a tad more indie
, she happens upon The Tale of Tux. Initially amused by the character choices available to play, she selects Pine Cone and proceeds to
play the game after picking a goal, distributing attributes and entering a name. On her first run her intelligence is off the charts,
but her strength is low and the resulting game play she found amusing as she proceeded through the Mountain, Forest, and Desert areas.
After retrieving all three penguins required by the python to fight the final boss of the game, she forgot to save her progress at all
and proceeded to fight A Brick. Unfortunately, rng was not in her favor, and she lost the final fight. She intends to start up again
after dinner with a new build to take down A Brick.

Scenario 2: Johnny.
Johnny is a middle school student who, like many students his age, is quite fond of video games and less fond of paying attention in
class. During 5th period, a particularly boring time of the day, he will often take out his iPhone to pass time. He loads up his
favorite time killer The Tale of Tux, something he's played many times before but never gets old because each adventure is different.
Today he chooses to create a viking character with all brawn and no brain. He sets forth on his journey to eat the most delicious ice
cream in the world. As he's adventuring through the mountains, he decides to head back to the City because he wanted a change of
scenery. Today he picked a new option he'd never chosen before- he denied the python the penguins. Unfortunately, the python retaliate
d and in revenge for not surrendering the penguins he desired, the python ate Johnny's character, resulting in a game over. No problem
; exploring all the options is part of the fun.

Scenario 3: Story Rory.
Rory is a pretty casual game player, and isn't interested in anything with a too complex learning curve. He picks up The Tale of Tux
at the recommendation of a random banner ad he sees online, and is charmed with its simple appearance. He goes through character
creation and advances through the first few screens of the game. At first put off by the cookie-cutter RPG aspect of the game, he is
soon captivated by the underlying story and continues playing. Not giving much thought to the "game" part of the game, Rory carries on
with the storytelling facet. He immerses himself in his character's shoes, and reads eagerly to discover how he will plant the tree
that will grow to the heavens. While traveling in the desert, Rory chose for his character to play Angry Birds. His character died of
dehydration and he was met with a "Game Over" screen. Wanting to not be stumped by a simple browser game, he restarted his character
with the knowledge he gained of his first playthrough and avoided all the pitfalls present in the paths. At long last, Rory made it to
the final boss, A Brick. The final battle ensued, and in the end, Rory was victorious.
Hooked by the writing of the game, Rory plays through the game over and over again to see the other paths and characters.



Non Goals
This version of the game will not have these features:
Animations
Multiplayer 
Save states
Sound effects
Support for browsers that aren't up-to date versions of Mozilla Firefox, Google Chrome, or Safari
Support for languages other than English



Screen by Screen Specification
This section details each screen that will be visible to the player.

Title Screen
Displays the game's logo in majestic fashion in the center of the page. Below, a "Start Game" button goes to Home Page.

Home Page
There is a header at the top of the page that shows the game's logo on the left. To the right, there is a button that brings up the
About page.

Character Creation is displayed in the body.

Character Creation
The left side of Character Creation is the Info Box, containing a welcome message that introduces the game and instructs the user on
creating a character. The right side shows the customizable steps for doing so. Each step is a collapsible menu that requires the
previous step to be completed before it can be opened. Whenever a step is opened, close the last step that was open. The first step is
open by default.

Input a name
A text field allows the name to be typed. The only characters allowed are letters and spaces - prevent any other characters from being
entered. A maximum of 16 characters can be inputted in the field.
If at least 1 letter is inputted, pressing the "Next" button underneath opens Step 2. Otherwise, display an error, "Please enter a
name!"

Choose a character
A drop-down menu contains the predefined characters. They include:
Viking
Warrior Princess
Cheese
Pine Cone
The menu defaults on the first character of the list. A "Next" button underneath opens Step 3.

Choose a goal
A drop-down menu contains the predefined goals. They include:
Save prince
Milk cow
Plant a tree
Eat the most delicious ice cream in the world before it melts
The menu defaults on the first goal of the list. A "Next" button underneath opens Step 4.

Allocate attributes
The attributes Health, Strength, and Intelligence are listed with text fields next to each. Allow only digits to be inputted. Up and
down buttons are next to the fields, allowing each value to be raised or lowered. Each attribute begins at a value of 1 that cannot be
made lower. Players must modify the attributes such that their sum is no greater than 100.

If the attributes total 100 or less, pressing the "Done" button underneath clears the welcome message in the Info Box, and in its
place displays a summary of the character being created. Otherwise, display an error, "You have 100 points. Distribute them accordingl
y."
A "Reset" button sets the value of each attribute back to 1.

Underneath the Info Box is the "Begin Adventure" button that goes to the Main Game. Initially grayed out, it becomes clickable once
the last step is complete.

Main Game
There is a header at the top of the page that shows the game's logo on the left. To the right of this, there is a list of the chosen
name, character, and goal. To the right of that information are the values of the attributes and money, which will update in real-time
. The far-right of the header has the Backpack button which opens the Backpack panel, the Hints button which shows the Hints pop-up
message, and the Quit button that brings the player back to the Home Page.

The body contains a textbox that displays the game dialogue. Underneath are buttons for each action the player may choose while they
play. The textbox and options are the focus of the player's interactions, so it is centered and takes up most of the screen.

The background shows an image representing the current area of the character. Artwork may appear in the foreground, representing the
character, NPCs, enemies, items, and any other objects that our artists choose to draw.

Backpack
The Backpack is a panel that pops out from the left of the Main Game, displaying a list of the character's possessions.

Hints
A pop-up message that contains hints and tips to the game that will aid any users that may be having difficulty progressing.
	Ex: Having trouble finding out where to go? Talk to the townsfolk!
	       Is a lack of an item holding you back? Investigate even the weirdest places! You never know what you'll find.
	       Too weak to beat the bear? If you're smart enough, try talking them down!
	       Not smart enough to outwit the merchant? Break his legs! Not saying the town won't come after you, though...

Game Over Screen
Shows the words "Game Over" in magnificent fashion. Underneath, a "Restart" button brings the player back to the Title Screen.

Victory Screen
Shows the words "You Win!" in marvelous fashion. Underneath, a "Restart" button brings the player back to the Title Screen.

Options (Nice-to-have)
Lists settings that can be changed by the user:
Music Volume: Adjustable slider that goes from 0% to 100% volume. Default: 100%.
Font size: Five buttons that will change font size, from very small to very large. Default: Normal.
Font colour: A dropdown menu listing all available text colour options. Default: Black.
Text speed: ‘Slow', ‘Normal', ‘Fast' options for text speed. Default: Normal.

About Page
Contains information about the game/project and the team that worked on it. Keeps the same header from the Home Page, but the About
button is replaced with Home, leading back to the Home Page.



Mechanics
This section gives an in-depth coverage of the game's rules.
Values with a * are subject to change.

Attributes
Health: A value that measures the character's vitality. If at any point it reaches zero, the character dies and the game is over.
Strength: A value that measures the character's power. A higher number increases the chance of winning in battles.
Intelligence: A value that measures the character's intellect. A higher number provides the player with more actions to choose from
during events.

Each attribute has a minimum value of 1. Their values can be raised past their starting values by picking up items or by completing
certain events.

Money
Money can be used to purchase items the player can afford. Certain actions in events may increase or decrease the amount of money the
player has. Players start with a money value of 500. The minimum is 0, and there is no maximum.

Items/Backpack
Items are entities that can be acquired from events. They stay with the character throughout the game, providing attribute bonuses.
Once acquired, items are stored in the player's backpack, which can carry a maximum of 5* items. Items can no longer be acquired when
the backpack is full. Items cannot be voluntarily removed from the backpack.

Battle
The outcome of a fight is determined by rolling the attack of the character and the attack of the enemy—the one with the higher attack
value wins. Attack is calculated by taking a random value between 0 and the Strength of the character/enemy.

Story
This section goes over the storyline and how events connect with each other.



Begin Adventure
After "Begin Adventure" is pressed, present the backstory for their chosen goal. Start the tutorial afterward.

Event T: Tutorial
Go over the basics: Character Page, Backpack, and the Hints Page. Describe what they'll find in each of those places. Then demonstrate
how actions are taken. Have them pick up an item to show the backpack's usage. Then have the player make their way to Hub City.

Hub City
Once the player is in Hub City, the player can choose to adventure to one of the three other locations: Desert, Forest, or Mountain.

The Python's Nest may be visited, where the Python will ask the player to collect three penguins for him. If all Event Ps are
completed, Event Z1 will occur.

Events 1, 2, 3
After completing an Event of this category, the player continues to the next event in the sequence.

Event P: Penguins
After completing an Event P, the player is sent back to Hub City. The location for that Event P is then closed and cannot be accessed
from the Crossroads.

Event Z1: Python's Nest
The player has the choice of giving the penguins to the Python, which completes the event and continues to Event Z2. A second choice,
refusing to give the penguins, causes the player to die.

Event Z2: Brick's Hut
The player battles with the boss, A Brick. There are five rounds of battle. If the player wins three or more of them, they beat the
game, continuing to the Victory Screen. Otherwise, the game is lost, continuing to the Game Over Screen.
